# Paradigm-checker
To evaluate the possibility of a paradigm or compatibility of multiple paradigms within a language using the MAX/DEP approach to exponence.


## Input File
- The default input file is named `values.txt` as of now for no reason.
- Structure requirements:
    - The first line should include three positive integers representing the dimensions' range.
    - Subsequent lines should represent the paradigm, with each cell containing a separate string, following the order `(0, 0, 1), (0, 0, 2), ..., (0, 1, 0), (0, 1, 1), ..., (1, 0, 0), ...`.
- Spaces and new lines will be disregarded. In other words, (1), (2) and (3) will be considered the same.

<pre>
(1) a a a a

(2) a a
      a a

(3) a
  	 a  a
     
	a
</pre>

- The checker only deals the first paradigm in the input file every time. Anything follows the current paradigm does not matter and therefore other paradigms as well as the comments of each can all be put in one file.

## Processing
- Cells are initially grouped based on their exponence.
- Possible exponent sets are generated by selecting one item from each group.
- The feasibility of combinations is assessed through a system of inequalities based on the exponents.

For example, for the paradigm of *femuer*, *femur* might be from NOM.SG or ACC.SG, while *femin* might come from all the remaining 4 ones. Possible exponent sets are thus {NOM.SG, ACC.SG} x {NOM.PL, ACC.PL, DAT.SG, DAT.PL}.

Suppose we are now checking the possiblity of the combination (NOM.SG, ACC.PL). For a cell outside of the exponent set, say ACC.SG, because we know the exponent of it is the same as that of NOM.SG, but not ACC.PL, we have a linear inequality of the form MAX(ACC) $<$ DEP(PL). One combination is possible if and only if there is a solution to the system of all such inequalities.

## Output
- Only one possible set of weights for the first viable exponent set is output by default.
- The output displays the weights of each dimension and the destination for each cell in a numerical form. For example  `(0, 0, 0) -> (2, 1, 1)` denotes NET.SG.NOM has its exponent from FEM.PL.ACC.
  - For the sake of readability, both weights and cell names shall be made adjustable in future updates, so we can have stuff like ADD-ACC = 1.0 and NET.SG.NOM -> FEM.PL.ACC instead of the horrible forms now.
- Comment out `break` on line 180 to display all possible exponent sets.
